How to Extend an OOTB pattern
Go to this lab to see how
	https://developer.servicenow.com/app.do#!/event/knowledge19/LAB1542
Community resource
	https://community.servicenow.com/community?id=community_article&sys_id=6866ef9cdb9d3b0422e0fb24399619c2

How to Copy an existing Pattern
	1. Create a new pattern
	2. Add a discovery record to the identification Section but leave it blank with no steps
	3. Go to the Pattern tab and copy the 'metadata' section of the payload to somewhere safe
	4. Go to the Pattern you want to copy
	5. Go to the Pattern tab and copy the entire json blob
	6. Go the new pattern 
	7. Go the Pattern tab and paste in the json blob
	8. Gut the metadata section and replace it with the meta data you copied from step 3
	9. Save the record
	10. Start modifying steps as needed now
		a. NOTE:  Updating shared libraries will effect everything
		b. NOTE:  don't forget to update pre/post processing scripts as needed to support the copied pattern

How to write a pattern
How to Create Pattern Record
	1. Create a local update set
	2. Go Discovery -> Pattern Designer
	3. Click New
	4. Set pattern type
		a. Infrastructure for CI Hardware
		b. Application for Process classification
	5. Set CI Type aka class
	6. Set Name
	7. Set Description
	8. In Identification Section click New
		a. In Pop Up 
			i. Set Name to "discovery"
			ii. Set Order  to 1
	9. Click Save

How to see Identifier Attributes in Pattern Designer
	1. Open a pattern
	2. Find the CI Attributes section on the top right section of the screen
	3. Look at the list of attributes, any that have a key symbol in front of them must to populated for the discovery identifier to work

How to Add Related List data to a pattern
	1. On New Pattern page 
		a. Click Discovery record at bottom of page to open Pattern Designer
			i. Click 3 line button on far right in middle of page (very small button)
				1) In Pop Up
					a) Search for CI Class
					b) Click it
					c) Then click plus sign to add it to the list
						i) Note:  Example video said you need to add two related list for it to work right
					d) Click Ok
				2) Now you should see Related List of ci classes in tabs on the far right going vertically.  These get added to a table called:  sa_ci_to_pattern
					a) This table linked related list tables to patterns and controls deletions strategies 
						i) Default Value for Deletion Strategy is Keep

How to add Pre and Post Processing Scripts Support to a new Pattern
NOTE:  Pre-Execution:  Lets you load in system properties to be used by pattern
	  Pre-Sensor:  Lets you make changes to the data before the IRE is ran
	  Post-Sensor:  Lets you make changes to the data after the IRE is ran
	OOTB variable 'current' has been replaced with 'mainCI'
	1. Go to Pattern Designer -> Pre Post Processing
	2. Review OOTB Scripts and see if you need to add your class to one of them or not
		a. Example
			i. Network Devices - Pre Sensor
				1) Controls adding model and manufacture to the cmdb
	3. Update script with class/table name directly in script as needed
	4. Go to Patterns field and add pattern here as well (does not inherit so you must add each child class)
	5. Click Save

How to add Library to a pattern
	1. Open Pattern Designer for new pattern
	2. Set Operation to Library Reference 
		a. Example
			i. SNMP Identity 
				1) Get NIC info
	3. Rename Step on the left side
		a. Example
			i. SNMP Identity Library
		b. Changing any underlying steps in a library changes it for all patterns using the library.  BE CAREFUL

How to add a New Step to a pattern
	1. Click the add above or add below step button Next to the "Steps" word in the top left corn of the Pattern  Designer 
	2. Give the Step a name
		a. Example
			i. GetName
	3. Select what kind of step it is or action that is going to happen
		a. Example
			i. Under "Query" click SNMP Query
			ii. Get SNMP OID value for sysName by looking at input from a previous discovery 
			iii. Set SNMP OID field to that value
			iv. Set Variables to sysName

How to use Debug Mode in Pattern Designer
	1. Click the Debug Mode button at the top of the screen
	2. Give IP Address of test device
	3. Click connect
	4. Wait for it to finish
	5. Now it will run any time you add a new step

How to Set a value on a record in a pattern
	1. Create a new step and name it
	2. Click Set Parameter Value
	3. Set Value
		a. Drag temporary variable on right into the field
			i. Example
				1) sysName
	4. Set Name
		a. Drag CI attribute on the right (above Temporary Variables) into the field
			i. Example
				1) Name
	5. Let debugger run
	6. Verify value was set on the CI attribute on the far right

How to use the SNMP MIB browser in a pattern 
	1. Create a new step
	2. Click SNMP Query
	3. Find Use SNMP Browser
	4. Click Browse button
	5. In Pop Up
		a. Click MIBs list and find the MIB you want to search/look at
		b. Click through MIBs Tree until you find what you are looking for
			i. Example
				1) Expand system
				2) Click Model
				3) Click Get data button on bottom left to get value back from device
		c. Click on the OID value inside the Node Detail section on the right
		d. Click done
			i. Should auto populate OID value into SNMP OID field
			ii. Should auto populate Variables with property name from MIB
	6. Click Test button in the top right of Pattern Designer to verify value for the attribute looks correct
		
How to alter or change a value in a pattern before it is set
	1. Create a new step
	2. Click Parse Variable
	3. Set Enter Variable field by dragging variable we want to alter the value of from the Temporary Variables section on the right
		a. Example
			i. Model
	4. Set Define Parsing
		a. Example
			i. Delimited Text
	5. Click the Retrieve button to see the value show up in the Output section on the bottom left
	6. Click Add Variable link/button in the middle on the right hand side in the Variables section
	7. Rename the new variable to what you need
		a. Example
			i. NewModel
	8. Set your Delimiters  by clicking the pencil button
	9. In Pop Up
		a. Add Text
		b. Click plus sign button
			i. Example
				1) (
				2) )
		c. Click Done
	10. Set position so it grabs the part of the text you want
		a. Should see a color highlight appear over the text you are trying to grab in the output section on the left side of the screen
	11. Now in a new step you can set an attribute on the ci record based on the variable name you made during the parsing step
		a. Example
			i. Create a new step
			ii. Click Set Parameter Value
			iii. Set the Value filed by finding your variable name in the Temporary Variables section and drag it to the field
				1) In the example above it was NewModel
			iv. Set Model
				1) Following the example above it would model
	
						
How to Hardcode a value in a pattern
	1. Create a new step
	2. Click Set Parameter Value
	3. Set Value by putting Double Quotes around the value 
	4. Set Name by dragging the CI attribute over from the top right side of the pattern designer

How to create a record in a related list in a pattern
	1. Create a new step
	2. Click Parse Variable 
	3. Set Enter Variable
		a. Example
			i. Serial Number
	4. Click the Retrieve button to verify you get data back first
	5. Set Define Parsing 
		a. Example 
			i. Delimited Text
	6. In the Variable section on the right Click the Table radio button and give a temp table name
		a. Example
			i. TempSerial
	7. Then click add variable and give it a name
		a. NOTE:  try to match the name of the real attribute on the ci class
		b. Example
			i. Serial_number 
	8. Set Position to 1
	9. Create a new step
	10. Click Transform Table
	11. Set source field by dragging over the temp table variable you made above
		a. Example
			i. TempSerial
	12. Set Target Field to the name of the table we want to have the record created in
		a. NOTE:  Table name should start with a $
		b. Example
			i. $cmdb_serial_numbr
	13. Set Target Field Nam
		a. Example
			i. serial_number
			ii. serial_number_type
			iii. valid
	14. Set Value
		a. Example
			i. Drag and drop serial number from Temporary Variables
			ii. "standard"
				1) NOTE:  Hardcoded values are surrounded in double quotes
			iii. "true"

How to build references or relationships in a pattern 
Create a reference 
	1. Create a new step
	2. Click Create Relation/Reference 
	3. Set Parent table
		a. NOTE:  Table name must start with $
		b. Table that has a reference field on it you want to set/populate
			i. Example
				1) $cmdb_ci_serial_number
	4. Set Child table
		a. NOTE:  Table name must start with $
		b. Table that you want to reference on the parent
			i. Example
				1) Class you are trying to populate with discovery
	5. Set Result table
		a. Put a human readable name that is a fake table/placeholder 
	6. Set Relation type to None
	7. Click o Reference checkbox to put a check mark
	8. Set Direction
		a. Parent to Child means the reference field is on the parent table above
		b. Child to Parent means the reference field is on the child table above
	9. Set Column Name
		a. Name of reference filed you are trying ot set on the parent table
	10. Make sure this reference is always made when valid and removed with there is no match
		a. Set Creation Criteria to Condition
		b. Set Meet to Any
		c. Set Filter to 
			i. 1 Equal 1
				1) NOTE:  Basically always true
		d. Set Unmatched Values to Remove
	11. Let Debugger run
	12. Click related list tab on the top right side that run vertically under CI attributes and verify data is populated
Create a relationship
	1. Create a new step
	2. Click Create Relation/Reference 
	3. Set Parent table
		a. NOTE:  Table name must start with $
		b. Table that has a reference field on it you want to set/populate
			i. Example
				1) Class you are trying to populate with discovery
	4. Set Child table
		a. NOTE:  Table name must start with $
		b. Table that you want to reference on the parent
			i. Example
				1) $cmdb_ci_ip_address
	5. Set Result table
		a. Put a human readable name that is a fake table/placeholder 
	6. Set Relation type 
		a. Example
			i. Owns::Owned By
	7. Make sure this reference is always made when valid and removed with there is no match
		a. Set Creation Criteria to Condition
		b. Set Meet to Any
		c. Set Filter to 
			i. 1 Equal 1
				1) NOTE:  Basically always true
		d. Set Unmatched Values to Remove
	
How to save and publish pattern
	1. Once all steps have been added and tested, click Save button in the top right corner of the Pattern Designer
	2. Click Publish button to make it fully active to allow discovery to sue this version of it

How to use a pattern via Discovery once it has been published
	1. Go to the Classifier you want to use the pattern
	2. Go to the Triggers Probes related list at the bottom
	3. Click Edit button
	4. Search for and add Horizontal Pattern
	5. Click Save
	6. In Triggers Probe Related list record update
		a. Phase to Identification
		b. Pattern to the new pattern you just made
				
